Minimum Edit Distance has
a wide variety of applications.
It allows you to implement
spelling correction,
document similarity, machine translation,
DNA sequencing and more.
I will also show you
the different types of edits.
You have already seen how to build
autocorrect using edit distance.
Let's consider a slightly
different problem.
What if you are given two words strings or
even whole documents and
you wanted to evaluate
how similar they are.
Minimum edit distance
can be used to do this.
Given two strings, the minimum edit
distance is the lowest number of
operations needed to transform
one string into the other.
It has many applications.
In an LP for example,
it could be used in spelling correction,
document similarity and
machine translation.
It can also be found in computational
biology and DNA sequencing.
For calculating minimum at a distance you
will use three types of edits operations.
All three operations that you
already know inserts delite and
replace for example to turn play and
to stay what is
the minimum number of credits
required to make this happen?
So to turn p into s,
you replace p with an s and
to turn l into t you replace l with a t.
Both a and a are the same.
So do nothing and
it's the same with y and y.
So the total number of edits is 2.
Until this point you've considered all
edits operations to cost the same.
That is a cost of one but
now you will consider a different cost for
each type of operation.
You will use these costs to calculate
the edit distance which now represents
the total edit costs.
This is what you are trying to minimize.
It is simply the sum of costs for
the edits that were made.
Inserts and deletes will have a cost
of 1 and replace has a cost of 2.
This makes intuitive sense if
you think of replacement as
it deletes followed by an insert.
Calculate for this example.
You have to replace edit at a cost of 2
each for a total added distance of 4.
This is a relatively simple example and
it was possible to find the minimum
edit distance just by looking at it.
But imagine the number of operations
between much longer strings and
large couple of texts or even DNA strings.
You can try and
solve these problems by brute force
adding one edit distance at a time and
enumerating for all possibilities
until one string changes to the other.
But this could take a very,
very long time.
In fact by solving this way,
the computational complexity increases
exponentially as each
string grows in length.
A much faster way is by using a tabular
approach, you will implement this next.
The tabular approach I spoke about
allows you to speed up the enumeration
of all possible strings and edits.
In doing so,
you will also be learning about a new
concept known as dynamic programming.
We'll see about this in the next video